Welcome to another episode of StoryHive
on location Victoria. We're coming to
you live from House of Owl, Victoria's
Co-working Club for creators located on
the unseated and ancestral territories
of the Lquangan speaking peoples. Deep
bow, deep respect, deep love to the
original caretakers of these lands. My
name is Jordan Dak, producer, poet,
songwriter, and host of this deep dive
into the creative process, creative or
die. I'm sitting here with an absolute
legend who lives at the intersection of
the creative process and tech and the
future and whatever's happening next.
Chris Krug is there.
>> Hey, what's up Jordan?
>> Chilling, man. How you doing?
>> Doing great. It's always great to be
here in the Hoot Nest and in Victoria.
So much like thriving creative activity
happening here, man. So pleasure.
>> It is absolutely my pleasure to have you
here. I'm looking forward to this talk.
So you know, usually what we do in this
conversation is that we skip right over
the resume. We won't spend too much time
on,
you know, your formative years
necessarily, but what we will do is
we'll go through some quick facts, facts
that may or may not be true. All right?
And your job is just to let the audience
know whether they are true. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Let me see.
>> Sounds fun.
>> Yeah, it's a good time. Okay. So,
wow.
>> Bring the heat, Jordan.
>> Bring the heat. Okay.
Okay. So, first fact,
Chris Krug was originally born in
Alaska. False.
You guys can keep score at home. Okay.
Now, next fact. Chris Krug
started a meetup group, a community of
AI enthusiasts in Vancouver and has
grown to beyond 300 members recently.
>> More or less true.
>> Tell me more.
>> Not everyone's an enthusiast. We got
plenty of skeptics, critical voices, all
sorts of people who are engaged in the
moment who aren't exactly enthusiasts.
>> Fantastic. Okay, cool. Okay, let's see.
Chris Krug is not your real name. Your
real name is Peter.
>> False.
>> False. Okay. Okay. Now, final question.
The truth is that I don't have any
questions. I'm just making this up as we
go along here.
>> I don't know. You sent me about 30
questions earlier that we're
>> Oh, right. Oh, those ones are good.
Yeah. Okay.
>> Well, I'd love to just dive right into
it, Chris. So for those of you for those
of people out there who don't know who
you are, how would how would you like
really explain what you do and who you
are to people when you first meet them?
If they're like, "Hey, Chris, who are
you? What are you all about? What do you
say?"
>> I'm a tech artist. I've spent the last
30 years at the intersection of the
internet and emerging media and art
forms. And now I run um a nonprofit
called the BCAI ecosystem. So I'm the
executive director of a nonprofit and a
practicing tech artist.
>> Okay. That was very succinct. Thank you.
Cool, man. So, what can you tell me a
little bit about the adventure or the
journey that took you from um well, I
mean, you started would you say you
started in tech or started in creativity
or somewhere in between the two? My dad,
you said we weren't going to go down
childhood lane, but my my dad brought
home a Apple 2e when I was like 12 years
old and connected it via Prodigy to the
internet
>> and the world opened up to me and so I
became a online guy in my early teenage
years. This is like late 80s, early 90s.
And so that was kind of my big first
exposure to networks and the internet
and connecting to other people in the
digital space.
>> And uh so I put myself through college
building websites and stuff and then um
I was sitting pretty uh with some
friends who had built a company called
Flickr right at the beginning of the
kind of social media revolution. So I
got to kind of
>> sit front row seat for that um
empowering revolution for many people,
you know, and stuff. And then uh well
that launched me into my own creative
practice around photography and I got to
travel the world helping other creative
practitioners figure out like how to
take advantage of the moment how to make
the most of this kind of like web 2.0
moment where it went from just you know
building the website to publishing
content interacting with your fans
finding your voice and like
disintermediating from galleries and
owners and you know like agents and
stuff like that. the people who had
traditionally held the power structures
of the creative industries. Um, we saw a
big shift there, you know, and and um
and that led me here, you know, I was
hanging out on Galliano Island pandemic
farming when uh AI reached its tendril
out to my cabin there and um really just
kind of like lit my brain up. Uh I
started sleeping less and experimenting
with a lot of these tools and
>> I got really lucky. I I mean it doesn't
start with a happy story, but I got
hacked really bad in 2017
>> and that had me pull back from the
internet. I had lived a pretty open
online life for, you know, most most my
career and and uh due to some Bitcoin
shenanigans, you know, someone wanted my
wallet and came after me and they wanted
my Twitter handle and and anyway, I got
hacked and brought to my my very knees
digitally speaking. Lost a main domain
name that I had had for a couple
decades. Did they get some of your coins
too that they
>> they got some PayPal money, but that was
all insured and stuff like that, but uh
no, in the end it was mostly the things
I lost were a couple primary email
addresses that locked me out of
everything and my main domain or
whatever. But
>> um so I had kind of like pulled back
from the internet when um when I learned
about AI. Uh and uh so I was a little
like reticent to put myself out there
into some of these Discord servers where
you were generating midjourney images
and stuff like that because they just
looked like hacker chaos to me, right?
And so I stood up my own Discord server
that day, installed the MidJourney bot
onto it, and invited a few of my friends
from kind of the olden days of the
internet to that server.
>> And that was the seed that became this
kind of thriving community that we have
today where all sorts of artists and
professional creatives are coming
together to figure out, you know, what
exactly is going on in this moment. Um a
lot of us are following our passions and
curiosities down creative rabbit holes
and then you know returning that in the
form of you know
>> gallery works presentations demos to
other people teaching teaching other
people what we've learned you know and
stuff and so it's become this kind of
virtual virtuous you know online
learning circle of other people trying
to figure this [__] out you know
>> super cool
>> now do you think that I mean have you
been one in your past as a photographer
um or even before that staying back in
the uh the early days
was the difference between art and tech
distinct in your mind or was it fairly
fluid?
>> I tell you what, when I first got into
technology, I didn't even know that you
could live the life of a professional
creative. In my family, there was
doctors and lawyers and engineers and
software developers. But, um, you know,
I grew up in a pretty conservative
religious situation where people that,
you know, made films or were in bands or
made art, they were considered worldly
>> and not like in a positive way, you
know, not like, oh, they're well
traveled, you know, or something like
that, but it's like, you know, now
that's a,
>> you know, not not a desirable
um, you know, I don't even want to say
like line of work because to be an
artist isn't really line of work. it's
kind of, you know, a life a lifestyle,
you know, but so those I didn't know a
lot of people like that. Um, and so
there was definitely a big um chasm
between my tech work and my creative
work there for a long time.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But um you know
through building websites at first for
other people people in marketing
departments and stuff like that
>> I eventually stumbled into photography
and that was the creative key that
unlocked the the doorway to me being
able to step into like thinking of
myself as an artist and living that um
artistic creative life.
>> Yeah. I mean, if you think about all the
different arts, it's it's would be
hardressed to find an art that doesn't
involve tech to some degree, right? You
know, I mean, even if you're developing
your photos in a dark room, there's
still technology involved. Uh, and we're
going to dive a little deeper into the
whole, you know, the AI verse art and
even if that is a conflict and what that
conflict looks like. So, we'll just
leave that alone right now. But um I'd
love to hear a little bit more about
when you started to notice that AI was
this thing that could change the world,
could change the way that we look at
things.
>> Well, my first like epiphany about it
was the very very first time I was
exposed to it. Someone showed me mid
journey and we just got to having like a
creative imaginary jam session.
Imagination jam session.
>> You bring us into that moment like Yeah.
>> If we were right there. My friend James
Lester, who runs the Sons of Vancouver
distillery in Vancouver, came over to
help me build two stills in my
greenhouse on Gano Island. And while he
was over there, he showed me this thing
that he had seen called Midjourney. And
Midjourney is an image generation tool
on that was run on Discord at the time.
There wasn't a website.
>> And um yeah, you can, you know, more or
less, you know, speak your ideas into
existence. So you can say you know black
and white photography circuit turn of
the century wide angle high contrast
film grain yoseity backdrop you know you
and and then you know you can start to
you know I call it like an imagination
jam session because really like the
types the craziest [__] that you can
think of you can start to you know get
out into the world and it's just a fun
way of uh creatively brainstorming and
stuff and I was I was captivated by it
but I pretty quickly saw like even in
that first session that like this this
is going to change the way all
professional photography stuff is done.
Like, and what I mean, I don't mean the
act of pushing a button or something
like that, but like, you know, for big
budget shoots, we're doing lots of
client meetings, coming up with creative
briefs, coming up with a budget and a
schedule and hiring, you know, models or
actors and working with production
people, you know, and then once we do
those shoots, you know, we're refining
those assets and turning them into other
things and documenting our work and
writing reports and sending invoices and
all these things related to the
production of professional creative
works or whatever. And so, um, the thing
that got me at first was, oh, I'm never
going to do a photo shoot again where I
have other production people before I
generate it in midjourney first and get
it all approved by the client.
>> It's like,
>> no, my creative time is valuable and
like my vision and so I can like
>> bring these ideas into the world with
very little cost, show them to the CL. I
can even spec, you know, f8 Fujif film,
medium format, you know, 8K resolution,
maximum bokeh, you know, whatever. You
can spec the tech on it, too. Key light
and, you know, backlight and hairlight
fill. You can spec all these things and
so you can
>> show your ideas to the person that is
both paying the bill and approving the
final works before a model shows up or a
light gets turned on or anything like
that.
>> Yeah, that's right. So, um, that was the
first kind of like epiphany I had. It's
like, oh, this is going to change
everything around how creative work is
produced.
>> In that moment when you had that
epiphany, I imagine there was probably
excitement, maybe some goosebumps, maybe
like, you know, just flashing visuals of
what the future might look like,
whatever it was, your experience. Was
there any fear in your system?
The main fear I remember feeling was
around joining Discord and getting
hacked again,
>> right?
>> I'm comfortable in changing
technological environments and like
those create opportunities for little
fish or you know not the big fish,
right? Like when a
>> incumbent is disintermediated by an
upstart come it's because of technology
and stuff like that, right? And so
that's very much how I was able to um
ride the first couple waves, the the web
one revolution and the web two
revolution. So
>> um I was uncertain and I still am very
uncertain about where things are going,
>> but I'm not
>> um super fearful about about that in the
way that you mean or whatever. Like I
have a pretty like um maybe pessimistic
perspective about some bigger picture
future things. I think some of the
biggest concerns about AI is kind of the
consolidation of power into the hands of
a few
>> governments or corporations or you know
rich tech halves and have nots type
thing you know and stuff. So I do think
there's a lot of
>> things to be wary of and to like like
>> call call out hold to account and stuff
like that. Um but those things are
things that I think are amplified in the
world around me that I already saw. So I
already maybe had a
>> Yeah, that's a good point.
>> perspective against like governments,
corporations, authority figures, power
as it currently exists, you know, banks,
telos, governments, whatever. So it's
like
>> not that AI brought this all in. It was
it was already there. And
>> but but I but I think that this is the
nuance. You got to be careful there. I'm
not trying to be dismissive of it
either. I mean,
>> I do think that it represents a
significant thing that we need to keep
our eye on the ball on because uh um you
know,
>> those models plus these tools can
enslave more humans than ever before,
you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Very effectively and
efficiently. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, I mean um but those things are
things that I
have my eye on and fight against for my
whole life, you know, or whatever.
>> Yeah. You came in with those values.
>> Yeah. So, it's not like I'm mad at AI
for those things or whatever. those
those roads pretty quickly lead me back
to systematic change. I want to see.
>> Now, I'm not going to be able to really
recall this with uh much detail, but uh
I remember one philosopher talking about
AI and they were talking about how
excited we can get about the newness of
something that many of us do find it
convenient to let go of some of our
values um because we're just so excited
about new. And it's I mean you have to
wonder how strong were those values in
the first place, but there is something
sexy and
um about newness. Maybe it's the
dopamine factor that just wants to wipe
things clean and we just get so excited
about it that we are willing to make
some compromise. Do you do you agree
with that?
>> I think it's a really black and white
way of looking at things, dude. I think
you can be curious about the moment and
you can be engaged in the moment and
that doesn't necessarily mean that you
are sacrificing your values. I think
that that means some discomfort
potentially and the ability to hold that
contradiction, you know, but um I think
you can both be excited about the
opportunities for personal
transformation, for creative
empowerment, for even some of the more
high flutin things, you know, the curing
of cancer or you know the uh some of the
things that the the the boosters tout
you know I think you can be interested
and curious and engaged with those
things and you can also be um critical
and skeptical and calling out the things
that are [__] you know, and and and
and naming the harms and naming the
biases and um you know, like um more
than a decade ago, I uh found myself
doing a lot of climate activism work
with my camera. I got invited um through
a lot of relationships here on the
island and other things to be involved
with like the the UN climate change
summits and um you know some of the work
of Zapora Burman and some oil sands work
and stuff. And so I invested many years
in that. And a lot of times I would get
critiqued pretty hardcore online. You
know, they're like, "Yo, bro, you're
using an iPhone on a MacBook Pro on a
jet plane flying to a cl a climate
change conference. Can't you see the
[__] obvious paradox and like you
know um you know like contradiction
here? You're a hypocrite essentially."
Right.
>> Right.
>> And um and I I took it pretty hard, you
know? I I didn't I didn't I didn't I I
didn't I was in my young 20s, you I
didn't have the full like wisdom to kind
of like understand and comprehend that
and like someone one of my mentors took
me aside and um they told me about like
the abolitionists wearing cotton
underwear paradox and he said
>> do you think that you know if you wanted
to fight against slavery that meant that
you couldn't wear cotton underwear or
you know like buy clothes from the store
or something like that because that was
the system that produced all of those
goods of the economy that you lived in
or whatever. And it's like no that's
like a it's like a logical fallacy. You
can be a part of a system and still hold
it to a higher account, still critique
it, still try to change it and make it
better and reform it. You don't have to
go live in the woods, disconnect
yourself from all technology in order to
to critique this type of thing or
whatever. And so I would encourage you
be both be excited and not give up your
val.
>> That's the hard part, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And I want
to get into that in a minute here about
the idea of you call it two full hands
or both what is it?
>> I've been given a talk lately called
both hands full.
>> Both hands full. Thank you. Um, but just
before we get there, I'd love just to
dive into the real life Chris Krug world
of like day-to-day AI use just so I can
get a sense because I'm sure your first
introduction to MidJourney that was
mind-blowing and but you've things have
come a long way and uh I'd love to know
what tools you use like specific tools
and how you use them.
>> Yeah, man. Um, you're right. things are
changing quick and we're like in like
maybe like the third or fourth epoch
already of my AI usage. So I've and and
and and many of the worldleading thought
leaders are kind of talking about the
same kind of stuff. It's like I've
retoled my creative pipeline many times
in the last couple few years. And so
when we were here last for the um the
elevation series talks, you know, with a
bunch of musicians, I was really into
building knowledge bases and assistance.
That was like you know 15 months ago
something like that. So I was like you
know trying to build like local
knowledge bases of all the things that I
had said or done or thought or wrote you
know and using that as reference to plug
into the AIS and then building you know
assistance for all the type I had a
little marketing assistant and I had a a
sales navigator you know and I had a a
board of directors that I could ask
tough decisions to that would approach
it from different perspectives. So that
was kind of my approach. um you know 15
months ago or so. Now it really is all
about the kind of like agentic coding
and and and agentic workflows in
general. And it's not just about code.
Sometimes non-technical people tune out
when they hear the word code but like
code is how things come alive in the
digital space. You know from
>> visual projections behind a DJ to a
website to a music portfolio to you know
any of these things. These are all um
you know like digital digital
expressions that are come come to life
in this way. And so um I've been
building all sorts of just like agentic
workflows now based on those knowledge
bases. So
>> and by agentic you're meaning that the
AI is actually doing tasks taking
actions on your behalf.
>> Yeah. Like it to really break it down
all the way you could think about it as
like workers with names if you want to.
I got one researcher called Jordan, you
know, and then I've got like a document
called Chris, and then I've got a coder
called Jennifer or whatever. And so I
come in and I'm like,
>> yo, that course that I'm about to start
delivering over the next six weeks on
Friday, I want to turn that into an
e-learning course as well with all the
same modules, all the same exercises.
So, how about start by building me an
interface and mapping my modules to a
website and then like you know
researcher bot goes out and takes a look
at my course and then like you know UI
bot goes through and starts to you know
pull together some technical code and
then the marketing manager comes and
layers on the the text and stuff on top
of that and stuff. So, um, uh, that that
that's what I'm talking about about
agents is like, uh,
>> breaking those tasks down. You know, you
speak them into existence or type them
into exist. When I say speak them into
existence, a lot of people are using
tools like Whisper Flow now and stuff.
>> Um, you know, I I think a lot of like I
think a lot of when creatives and the
the creatives that you talk to me about
sometimes like like I'm sure we'll get
into this, but you're like, "Yo, dude,
all the artists I talk to are totally
anti- AI." And I'm like, "BS, Jordan.
There's no way, you know, or whatever."
But let's just assume that's the case.
Tools like Whisper Flow are pretty cool
because um instead of typing all your
stuff to your computer, you can talk all
your stuff to your computer. And that's
more profound than it sounds on the
surface. It's not just about it being
faster or not having to type at the
laptop.
>> These are a filter.
>> They're a huge filter between our head
and our heart
>> and our ability to control the AIS. And
>> so simply by speaking my instructions
through a tool like Whisperflow into my
computer all the time, I get I swear
like
>> thousand% better outputs from the thing,
they're even colloquial back in my
language without it uh
>> without me asking it to speak or think
like me because it's doing that, you
know, mirroring thing that that,
>> you know, where it's like if I'm talking
to it in
>> informal creative shortorthhand,
>> it realizes that I am a designer who
knows what it's talking about. talk to
me in that same way or whatever, you
know, and stuff. And so I encourage
people to break free from their fingers
as their main way of interacting with AI
as much as possible. That is one major
unlock in terms of
getting better results, let's say, but
but but by better I mean them being more
authentically
in your voice style worldview things you
care about overriding some of those
biases, some of the misogyny and
homophobia, racism and transphobia
that's built into these systems. You can
do that by bringing your own knowledge
basis to bear and then you know speaking
your existence is
>> okay. So, I'm imagining your daily
workflow here involving these different
agents and
>> I can tell you my daily workflow this
morning.
>> Yeah, tell me. Tell me
>> I literally like Okay, so first thing I
went to do is I went to chat GBT and I'm
like, yo, I'm about to wake up all my
agents for the day.
>> So, and I want them to like dive into
their GitHub knowledge bases and look at
all the work we've been doing for the
last week and identify gaps that they
can, you know.
>> Okay, just a second. Okay. So, you're
talking to chat GBT, but are your agents
cloud-based?
>> Yeah, I'm just trying to upgrade my
shitty prompt that I'm about to speak.
>> Yeah.
>> To
>> I'm trying to upgrade it to a really
good prompt before I go paste it into
like 20 super powerful agents.
>> I've realized my agents are so powerful
that it behooves me to take one extra
step
>> and like do the prompt upgrader type
thing. So, first I speak my thing into
existence. I say like what I was just
going to say.
>> I'm about to go wake up my agents
yesterday. They did a bunch of crazy
work for me. They built out all these
features and functions. They kind of
went crazy. I don't even understand
everything that's in there. So, let's go
through. Let's look for the gaps. Let's
look for areas to documentation and
let's build out today's work plan, road
map, features, bug reports, etc., etc.
So, I paste that into GPT into this
little prompt upgrader I've built.
Gotcha.
>> Then I get back this sounds a lot more
like computer language, sophisticated,
detailed software engineer, architect
level prompt. It's like,
>> you know, you are an agentic coding
assistant whose responsibility is to
maintain a codebase, you know. So, I get
this back and then I go to these 20
agents that I talked to the day before,
you know, or whatever. And and and it's
actually not 20 agents, it's 20, it's a
bunch of agents in 20 projects. So, I've
got my personal website, my nonprofit
website, my
>> courses that I'm teaching, um, you know,
all all the different things that I'm
working on or care about. I've got a
GitHub repo set up for all each one of
those, everything I'm working on.
>> And so, and inside those GitHub repos,
there's a variety of agents, research,
creative, coding, whatever.
>> So, I want to go in, I want to wake them
all up, and I want to be like, yo,
>> figure out where you are and what your
job is. Take a look around and figure
out how you can help me the most today.
Oh, so you're asking them to figure out
what their job is.
>> Yeah, this is the whole like context
engineering part of the whole thing. I
was like, you know, like 15 months ago
or 18 months ago, I'm building these
knowledge bases and stuff. Now I've got
these knowledge bases. I've got, for
instance, if you're a musician, all the
lyrics from every song on every album
you've ever made, alongside every
interview you've ever done and every
podcast you've ever done and every set
list from all your shows and all the
graphics you've ever published and
>> yeah,
>> export of your
>> Instagram, you know, comments and posts
or whatever, so that it like knows all
these things about you. It's walking
around with all of your world in its
brain, you know. From there, you can be
like,
>> "Yo, I'm that guy who posted about my
show on Instagram the last three days.
take those three days worth of posts and
turn them into a fivecoded standalone
website about my tour or write an
article from those things about the
things or whatever. And so
>> I'm able to speak my
>> commands or my desires into existence
for these agents that are sitting on top
of these knowledge bases that I've
lovingly and
>> stakingly gardened over the last couple
years. You know,
>> with that much data that you've built,
do you find yourself having to take a
lot of time to get the bots to focus and
to like really carve out what you want
them to focus on and what not because
you've given them so much knowledge.
>> So, you're you're getting into like more
like intermediate advanced stuff and I'm
so stoked about that. So, I've got this
main knowledge base that's my
everything. Yeah. And when an energetic
emergence appears within that knowledge
base, I break it out into its own thing.
>> Okay.
>> So before my nonprofit was a nonprofit,
it was some ideas in my knowledge base
about where I thought the future was
going, how I thought community was a big
part of what, you know, we needed to
build this community lifeboat so that we
could help creatives moving forward. All
these ideas were in my knowledge base.
And then at some point, like, you know,
you realize, oh,
>> now's the time to form that nonprofit.
So I go back into my knowledge base. I
start to coax it around the idea of the
formation of the nonprofit and then I'm
like, "Okay, now let's pull this out of
this knowledge base and set up as its
own thing
>> at which point it gets a new GitHub
repo."
>> Gotcha.
>> So like if
>> enough
synchronicity or patterns happen around
a particular thing when when there's
when there's reason to. So to answer
your question, uh if all my work was to
happen in one knowledge base with 20
different projects there and 50
different websites, you would be dealing
with inefficient token usage, agents
getting confused and hallucinating and
[__] like that. But I can um break it
out when it's time.
>> Yeah. Gotcha. Mhm.
>> And when your nonprofit started to
float to the surf, become something, was
that something that you identified or
was that an agent or the work that you
were doing with the agents that sort of
highlighted it or brought it?
>> Yeah. No, it was a human thing. Um, so
our Vancouver AI events have been going
on for like 15 months and they had grown
from like 80 people in my studio to over
200 people at the Space Center and and
they're awesome. um they are a genre
busting silos smashing good time an
exploration of what it means to be human
in the age of AI they're they're cool
and so people started coming to me and
they're like this is great but I want to
run one in Squamish or in Siri or on
Vancouver Island we've got a comox
>> okay so there you go
>> so um once I was running Vancouver AI
out of my company and then once other
people started kind of coming to me and
those things actually started to get
legs I I just sort of like wrecked
recognized that the
framework for what I wanted to build was
kind of emerging before me or whatever
and stuff. So, no, it was more like um
it was when it was when the Syrian
Squamish meetups started that I was
like, "Okay, we need to get this out of
my company, make it its own thing. The
it's got traction. There's momentum."
>> Cool. Okay. Well, I think it's a great
time to talk about those AI meetups then
if you could. I'd love to hear more
about them
>> because they started. It sounds like
it's all been organic growth, but it's
like an idea whose time has come. So, it
kind of builds quickly as well because
you've come a long way in a short amount
of time.
>> You know what? Let's go both hands full
and AI meetups at the same time.
>> Every single AI conversation that I've
been a part of tries to put you into one
of two camps. You know, you got the
boosters on one hand who are like, "Yo,
get on board. AI is changing everything.
if you don't like, you know, love AI,
you're going to get left behind. And
like,
>> you know, uh, and a lot of those people
are have a vested interest in that
paradigm. They're venture capitalists.
They're
>> government people that are trying to
spur innovation. They're they're the
tech people who who are trying to have
the next hot thing, you know, but
they're all often very vested vested
people in that situation.
And on the other hand, you have like the
complete like doomers, the resistors,
you know, like think about the power and
water, you know, how much data centers
use and like yo, AI's been trained on
all the stolen work of mankind and and
uh
>> and um
>> oh, it's full of bias like misogyny,
racism, homophobia, transphobia, [__]
classism, you know, it's like
>> full of these things, you know, and
stuff. And so, well, like like both of
those things are kind of true.
>> Yeah. And
I was either could go to protest events
and burn Teslas down
>> or I could go to like, yo, get on the AI
hype train if you
>> and I was like, well, those are both
like lazy like the the the the the hype
perspective. It doesn't tell you
anything about like the harms or the
effects on society. There's no critical
dialogue taking place at most of these
like startup pitch competitions or web
summit or any of these kind of things.
They're they're they're like
>> super just like
>> self-reinforcing circles of hype or
whatever, right? and the absoluteist
purest resistant perspective. Well, it
doesn't really tell you much about it
doesn't give you a road map what to do
in this moment like as your career
changes or
>> you know I've had like legit people
parents come to me and be like me and my
kid been saving up a college fund for 16
years and it's year 17 and uh they're
ready to spend their money and they're
like hey mom what should I study in
college and I have to I'm freaking bad
I've never I've had every answer to
every question they've ever asked me and
I don't have the answer to this and I
don't know and I don't know
>> question out there right now. Yeah. So,
it's like you can feel great about your
purity, but that doesn't really tell you
how to engage in the moment. And also,
like, please critical purists, don't get
up and walk away.
>> What happens when you, you know, it's
like if you get up and walk away, you
abdicate the throne to the tech pros and
venture capitalists, right?
>> Yeah, we need you in the room.
>> We need you in the room. We need these
critical voices there. And and that
means not just um being in the room, but
it means immersing yourself in the
vocabulary and the nuances and the
sophistication enough that you can hold
an intelligent conversation about this
stuff because
>> there is a lot of hype on both sides,
you know, and stuff, you know, like
>> for instance, a lot of the resistance to
the ways that AI is currently being
being done aren't the only way that it
can be done. It's just the Silicon
Valley way,
>> right?
>> You know.
>> Yeah, that's right. So there's not only
hypers scaling NASDAQ stock market
driven venture capital, you know, it's
not those aren't the only ways to do
these things, you know, like turns out
in our edge devices, in our phones, they
all got GPUs and CPUs in them. There's a
lot of unutilized
uh processing power that can be
harnessed to do inference and
intelligent work, you know, on on phones
and stuff. There's a lot of open source
work. There's a lot of like here we've
got, you know, green hydro power as like
our main source of energy. Got, you
know, a lot of First Nations that are
leading in areas like this and stuff. a
real opportunity to build like clean,
green, indigenous owned tokens that
support reconciliation, things that we
can be proud of and that power um you
know a creative future that's very much
like the West Coast here. So anyway, I
couldn't find any events I wanted to go
to. They were all hypers or doomers,
right? Burn a Tesla or like drink the
Kool-Aid type thing, you know, one or
the other.
>> And um
>> so yeah, I just started getting people
together in my studio to explore.
Another thing is like it's not just
talks about business and optimizing your
efficiencies and synergizing your
optimization. You know, it's also like
there's dancers that put sensors on
themselves and have AI generate
swarm-based visuals on the backgrounds
and stuff. You know, there's all sorts
of
>> performances, researchers, people that
aren't traditionally like platformed at
the kind of more business events or
whatever and stuff. And so I wanted to
provide that, you know, genre genre
smashing perspective on it where we can
hear a talk about some ideas,
watch a performance.
>> Yeah.
>> Explore some research and kind of move
between these modalities of like
academia performance and then
intellectual business stuff like
>> So you kind of you kind of just said it,
but if if I was at one of these meetups,
what would I see? What would dancers
dancing
research being communicated on on a
stage I assume? Is this the end?
>> Very very officially our program is four
hours. We have an hour of networking.
Then we got a 2-hour program. Then we
got an hour of networking again.
>> Cool.
>> During the networking, I like to throw
in some surprises. That's where you
might experience, you know, people with
robots that are using AI to map the
interior of the space using a LAR they
busted out of a Xbox 360 or something
like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> That's where you're going to see,
>> you know, we got one student in our our
community who built a uh American Sign
Language to voice translator via Zoom or
whatever, right? So, it uses AI to take
my voice and translate it into sign, but
then also, you know, 3D map your body as
you're signing and translate it back
into subtitles or whatever.
>> So, yeah, during the first hour of
networking, that's when we got like demo
pit, surprise performances, stuff like
that. Then we got our our two-hour
program. Um, we do a an indigenous
welcome at the beginning. We've got this
board member, Caroline Hilton, who's um,
uh, runs the Indigenomics Institute.
I've gotten to do a lot of work with her
in the last few years. And, you know,
before she joined our board, she invited
me into ceremony and talked to me a lot
about centering um, that practice of
ritual and ceremony before we enter into
the work. It's just such a great way to
um you know beyond the um respect and
acknowledgement of the land we're on the
welcome and stuff. It's a great way to
get everybody on the same page and in
the same headsp space build that
container of trust
>> where you can have
>> maybe not difficult conversations
conversations about difficult topics in
a way that no one walks away from
feeling good.
>> So anyway, we
>> start with a um indigenous welcome but
it's often a song and some words or a
blessing, you know, and stuff. Um my
buddy Anthony Joseph from Squamish
Nation's been doing a bunch of those and
um it's been pretty cool uh since we've
done like 30 30 of these events over the
last 30 months and he's probably done 12
of them or something and so he's worked
his way through his back catalog of
songs. He keep trying to give us new
songs every time he uh comes and does a
welcome. So I feel like I've heard like
like way more Squamish songs than I've
ever had an opportunity to hear anywhere
else. Like
>> it's pretty pretty cool. And then we got
uh Gabriel George Senior from Slay with
Tooth Nation and Nessa Gonzalez from
Squamish Nation. All these people um
participate regularly. And so yeah,
that's uh um how we get things kicked
off. Then we got our our community's
freaking blown up, man. So we have this
like community announcement section
which is just a chance for all the like
spokes to report back to like the
mothership on what the heck is going on
in these sub communities that have
sprung up. We've got like
>> an AI and education group, an AI and
life sciences group. this group of
philosophers called mind AI and
consciousness that does these
>> super intellectual academic there's pro
of the 20 people that meet in that group
on the monthly probably 12 of them at
this point are like PhDs in AI or ML you
know they're they're first order
robotics researchers or or things and
>> um so that that's pretty fun these days
like letting all the cool [__] from all
the different tendrils of the octopus
bubble up into the
>> Is there is there an artist faction is
there a group of creators subgroup
>> yeah absolutely we have a creativity and
design subgroup. Um, but I also I mean
our AI film club is one of the coolest
things we got going on. So, you know,
Vancouver is a hotbed of animation,
special effects, video games, film,
Hollywood North type stuff.
>> Well, talk about an industry where AI
like non-consensually came in and kicked
over the table and started eating out of
the refrigerator. Film like
>> like talk about fear. These are people
with $150,000 a year jobs, you know, uh
yeah, that that work their way through
the sweat shop part of the film industry
to hold these positions of effects
director or, you know, like like
>> um so, you know, this is where I get I
ain't trying to have a fight with you,
but you know, you can't tell me all
artists are against AI because there's
plenty of artists that I'm in first
order relationship with that build the
world's video games, special effects,
animations, films, whatever that are uh
like first of all they're technical
already. They already had GPUs in their
shop. They were using them for
rendering, lighting, shading, all these
types of things. So there there there's
definitely, you know, there's one part
of the curve that's burying their head
in their sand. There's one part of the
curve that is like maybe not asking
questions and just going head over heels
in the technology direction. And then
there's everybody else in the middle
that's trying to to figure it out to
figure out what it means for our careers
and for our kids and for our futures.
>> Well, you know, to that point, I there's
actually Let's pause for a quick second.
Eric, how are we sounding? Yeah, it's
good. Okay, just make sure before we
keep going. Um,
so here's here's a contrast for you. So,
I'll speak to somebody here at House of
Owl, let's say, and uh a musician,
songwriter, someone who uh spends a lot
of time in the studio and they're
worried that hey, AI is going to come
come along and take away their job in
the studio. It's going to start mixing
music better than anyone anyone else
can, even though it is a subjective art.
Um, but then that very same night I'd go
home, I'd listen to a podcast and I'm
listening to some of the most successful
engineers, audio engineers and producers
in the game and their conversation about
AI is
it they don't they are on the complete
other side of the spectrum. They don't
even mention the ethics. They don't even
mention um any downside to AI. It's all
just they just skipped that conversation
and they've already integrated into
their workflow. They're mixing and
producing three times as many songs as
they were last year at this time.
They're making three times as much
money, but it hasn't threatened their
livelihood yet. It's only multiplied it
where the other artists that I was
speaking to, they were already seeing it
as this might take away my job. And this
is a question that I have too. You know,
there's a lot of artists who I've seen
speak about the ethics of AI, but as we
move through the conversation, it seems
that they're more talking about that
they're not like they might lose a job,
which is different. It's which is also a
concern and very justified concern, but
it's different than threatening art as
we know it. You know,
>> I think it's a really useful
distinction. And I was thinking as I was
tracking your question, I'm like for the
purposes of this dialogue and and in
some of the conversations I have,
there's like creative professionals
>> and then there's artists.
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> A lot of artists are creative
professionals and
>> some creative professionals are artists,
>> but um I think it's probably useful to
break those things apart because the
creative professions are changing for
sure. Y
>> and um and yet I think art is probably
more important than ever.
um
the people that you mentioned at the
podcast, I don't know them, so I
shouldn't stick up for them. But you
shouldn't assume that they're not
concerned about the ethics at all and
they just passed through that gate and
just started adopting it. Like maybe
Yeah, maybe they spent 18 months trying
to figure out where they stood on all
these things, you know, and stuff. And
like maybe like me, the documents
they're attaching to every talk they
have with AI about anything is their
worldview and values, their
perspectives, and their AI policy.
>> Yeah, great point.
>> Every conversation they're having with
AI is inside the garden that they've
>> built of
values, ethics, vocabulary. Here's a
bunch of words I say because I'm
anti-colonial, anti-racist. Here's a
bunch of words I never say. the these
are attached to every single
conversation though.
>> That's right.
>> So, um
>> so maybe that you know those guys uh
have passed through that gate already
more so than that they don't care about
it or whatever you know.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> so in terms of your friend or your
colleague uh losing some of their
professional creative work
>> um because of AI especially like the
audio production stuff I think that's
that's real. Mhm.
>> And I guess the other thing I would say
is uh the other people you mentioned on
the podcast, they're just trying to make
the most of the next couple of years
when they're talking about I make three
times as many podcasts and I'm three
times as productive.
>> They're not necessarily talking about
what happens after that.
>> Yeah. They're not talking about six
years from now.
>> That's right. So obviously people that
explore this stuff early, build it into
their pipelines and workflows will have
an advantage over their colleagues or
their peers who don't who haven't
integrated any of those things.
>> Um, but now this studio House of Owl
member puts on a different hat as an
artist and they're like, "Yeah, but what
if that plays out to its logical
conclusion? That's great that you're 10%
ahead of the curve and you're three
times as productive making three times
as much money as you used to be.
What about after that?
>> So, they're pro they're probably,
>> and this is the confusing state of the
moment and the contradiction we have to
hold. Yeah.
>> Quickly walking back and forth between
flopping on their artist hat and worried
about like what are we all going to do
for meaning and purpose and fulfillment
in the future and what is the role of
truth and beauty and art at all.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And this whole like
>> Yeah. But I charge people $55 an hour to
do that same type of um you know, studio
audio sound, you know, updates or
whatever. And so I'm sympathetic to this
perspective. I'm definitely more
sympathetic to it than I am to the
booster perspective.
>> So I think that um both ultimately, you
know, kind of fall short.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean
I wasn't going to jump to this question.
And this feels like in a way the
question at the heart of a lot of these
conversations, but let's just say it is
what does it mean to be human in the age
of AI?
>> Yeah, for me it means like knowing which
things I want to hang on to no matter
how good the AI gets at building
synthetic content. It means uh asking
ourselves like what you know looking
beyond the like yeah I'm three times
more productive in this moment and
looking beyond the effect to the effects
that it has on our institutions
>> like schools.
>> Yeah. like families, like churches, like
governments, like countries even, you
know, and stuff like
>> um
you know, making sure that the benefits
the the part that people are excited
about is very likely that the part that
they're excited about won't be evenly
distributed. Mhm.
>> So, keeping the humanity centered in the
AI means like, yo, if this is going to
be used to have an intelligence
explosion, which is going to result in a
golden age of economic development, how
do we build systems that ensure that
that gets equitably if not evenly, you
know, distributed?
>> Yeah.
>> So, it doesn't just end up in a few
hands. Mhm.
>> It's like that when they build a data
center in downtown Vancouver
>> that all that tokens doesn't just get
used for dual use defense technology
that some of it gets allocated to
artists and cultural as a line item as a
commitment. 20% of the tokens that come
out of this factory will be used to
support culture and the arts in the
communities where this stuff takes
place, you know.
>> Um those are the types of things I think
it means when it's like
>> we got to live in the future, you know.
And
>> so using the
things that people are excited about,
the tokens that are created, the the
wealth, the power, the intelligence, the
creativity that's created to benefit
individuals, communities, citizens,
>> our country, those types of things.
>> Yeah. And that's great because I think
the other thing that I noticed from a
lot of creatives is that they hold a
very
strong opinion because they don't know
what other options there are, what other
opinions there are to hold. And they
might also be uncertain of what they can
do with their art or in their lives to
actually you know
create a future where the human is still
um you know centered in the
conversation. And so is that is there
something that you could suggest that
that artists can do from their place and
from their art that um other than you
know staying engaged in the conversation
but actually
um if we are to nudge this into a
direction that feels ethical is there
something that artists can do from their
position not as a politician you know
not as a uh uh not as a CEO or how can
they influence the future? Okay, I'm
really excited to answer this question
because I think I actually have
something that will like uh be
meaningful to people or whatever, you
know, and stuff. And so, um,
nobody asked for this moment.
>> I didn't I had 140,000 photos on the
internet under creative common license.
AI just came in and slurped them all up,
trained itself on my data, and then
started, you know, selling that as a
subscription off to to other people and
stuff, right? And so it's like no one no
one asked, but but but here it is,
right? And so my my pretending that it
didn't happen doesn't make it go away.
And so
>> I'm trying I seek agency in this moment.
I don't want to feel like the world is
happening to me and there's nothing that
I can do about it, you know, stuff. And
and that's how I think a lot of people
feel is they didn't ask for this. They
don't like it. They don't agree with it.
It rubs against their values and they
don't like where we're going. And and
and I'm I'm I'm very sympathetic to that
kind of stuff, you know. So, one of the
things I've been able to do to reclaim
my own personal agency is using the
mirror of AI to point back at my own
creative work and my archives as a way
to understand my unique ven diagram of
creative weirdness. And so, I mean,
literally like beating hundreds of
thousands of photos to AI tools and and
and training models that have never seen
a human face before on the portraits
that I've ever made. such that all of
this particular AI's understanding of
what a human face looks like is built
purely on my stylistic choices through
my crossprocess street portraiture from
the you know late 2000s or whatever you
say.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, so I think that the the
most useful
value of AI that I found at all has been
as a mirror to better understand my own
practice, output, tendencies, and even
like I'm 49 years old. I've produced
stuff for 30 years online on the
internet. Synthesizing the patterns from
those things is not that easy of a task,
man. I've given
>> sure
>> hundreds of three-hour lectures and
interviews across you know like you know
decades or whatever right well AI is a
great way to do that
>> take a look at these 30 talks that I've
given over 30 years you know and start
to analyze trends patterns how I talk
which examples I give what my unique
special sauces compare this to people
out there in the world tell me areas
that you know you think would be
adjacent to this I should lean into
stuff like that so really using
>> using using the tools to analyze as your
own work whether it be poetry or
paintings or photography graphic design
I mean I you know writing you go on and
on right like anyone who has
>> published and I don't mean published in
a magazine or on the in like I mean like
out there in the world finished creative
works those are things through which we
can analyze and learn about ourselves
and the stuff
>> and and that is a great starting point
because the
>> the artifacts the digital artifacts that
come out of that self-discovery process
using AI as a mirror to analyze your own
work and creative output and stuff like
that and career. Those artifacts are the
things that I was talking about that
ground all your other conversations with
AI into the future. So, you're like,
"Yo, here's art that I made. Here's why
I make art at all. Here's who I am. Now,
let's have a conversation about
something."
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> You know, or politics in Canada or
whatever. It's coming through all those
perspectives. So, I feel like that's a
great way to
uh mitigate some of the fears while
engaging with the moment and not have it
just be like a makework project where
the documents or the artifacts that come
out of that exploration process are
super useful and it will ground all
future conversations with AI and improve
the results significantly for a person.
>> That's super interesting. It kind of
feels, you know, like one of the of
course central questions in philosophy,
spirituality and psychology is who am I?
You know, and and to
leverage the power of AI in that
conversation is super interesting.
Is there any problem or concern that AI
might bring its own uh biases already
into the conversation? is that uh while
you're trying to discover who you are
through its potentially biased lenses.
>> Yeah, I would definitely have a critical
mind towards that type of thing.
>> But the example that you just gave
assembling, let's just say 10 blog posts
or 10 interviews or 10
>> even like let's say you're a yoga
teacher and you record your yoga teacher
sessions or whatever and you've got 10
90minute transcripts of you leading
classes.
>> Put those 10 transcripts in and ask that
same question. Who am I? M yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah
>> just see what comes out you don't have
to agree with it
>> you don't even have to like
>> you get to wait how much value you put
on its opinion
>> but I tell you it will be insightful
whatever isful and you don't object to
it you can say you missed this whole
thing you know or you didn't consider
this other facet of my career but but
that's the exploration process right the
yoga teacher feeds 10 transcripts of
90-minute courses in asks who am I gets
back this thing that they said misses
this whole facet of themselves Now you
get to go and be like, "Yeah, well, go
grab your Buddhist journals that you did
while you were in silent meditation.
Let's augment this conversation with not
just your yoga classes, but your silent
meditation."
>> I love that. And also, you know, I loved
staying keeping a critical mind. And
when the AI speaks back, says, "This is
who you are," or "This is who I hear you
to be."
You might even find that there's an
absence there that you notice like
that's not actually me. You're missing
this piece. You know, I remember the um
you know, my meditation practice goes
back like 30 years now or but I still
remember the first time I sat on a
pillow in grade 11. I had no idea what I
was doing, but I grabbed a book off my
parents shelf who they they were many
years meditating.
And the first instruction was to you
know clear your mind do all the things
but then just playfully and the key word
was playfully and with curiosity ask who
am I and it wasn't like who am I and
search with fervor and get attached to
the answer. The key was playful and be
curious which is also be critical. You
know
what emerges don't believe everything
you think and don't believe everything
that comes out of AI too. You know so I
think that's a just such a brilliant
asterisk to include in all these
conversations.
>> I love calling out the playfulness part
that very much defines my relationship
with AI. When I told you about those
midjourney imagination jam sessions that
sounds like play if nothing else, right?
Or whatever. And so a lot of um the play
part happens on the generation part of
generative AI. Me
>> pulling down different ideas even like
reference material. Let's talk reference
for a second.
>> Painters.
>> Yeah.
>> Walk around your house.
>> Photograph your favorite 10 paintings.
>> Attach those to a chat GPT conversation.
>> And then put in your journal from that
morning be like make an image in my
style on this thing that I care about
with 10 paintings that you made attached
to it. and and and and and be prepared
to be, you know, flabbergasted.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um but so the playful part for me is the
generation side.
>> The work part, the the critical part,
the the creative professional part is
like what you leave on the cutting room
floor.
>> Yeah,
>> that's true.
>> So I don't really think that like your
creativity is defined by what you
publish. It's really truly defined by
all the [__] you leave behind you. all
the
>> even this you know interview that we
have right here will probably go on for
two hours probably half an hour if it
will air on tell us and you know it's
it's really the the good editor he's
good because of the stuff that he cut
out because of the space that he left
around an emotional beat or something
like that you know so
>> um I like to do both I like to flex my
>> generative brainstorming expansive mind
you know on one hand and I like to sift
and sort through that and ask like what
does it mean does Does this matter? Why
would I choose this? And stuff like
that. Then and then iterate upon the
choices. So I'm choosing one out of a
hundred things and then iterating upon
the one that has been chosen.
>> Cool. So what does play look like right
now for you in the world of AI?
>> Um
the ability to create like infinite
possibilities uh without a lot of like
cost or um like friction or whatever
stuff, right? Like even the way I was
talking to you about the way I'm uh
interacting with my agents,
>> I'm like
>> look at all the stuff that we've done
this week. It's been significant and
it's been pointed in the direction of
this particular goal. Let's get in
there. Let's do some research and let's
get in on the old stuff and let's figure
out all the coolest [__] that we could
build in May of 2026, you know,
AIcentric or whatever and stuff. So,
>> I thought it because I it sounded very
productive, but I I heard joy and fun in
your voice when you were talking about
it.
>> Oh, yeah. I'm I'm it it's it's
>> it's both.
>> I'm extremely powerful right now in the
way that I can think about this stuff on
like a meta level. Like even the like
going to the prompt upgrader
>> to get a really good prompt before I go
spend 20 agents time churning off down
those paths or whatever stuff, you know?
Yeah.
>> And there's like an ethical AI kind of
like angle to that too, which is like,
yo, if you're going to be
sitting there with both hands full,
critical of its impact on the
environment, but also
>> curious and and wanting to engage in its
transformational capability,
uh why don't you make whatever effort
you can to be as efficient as you can be
or whatever, you know, stuff. And um and
so like simply by upgrading the prompts
before I run my agents, that's a good
way to do it. But but I and this is
where you get to see my my real ability
to hold like like the contradiction or
whatever which is like um
>> you know
a lot of those to actually let's just
we'll scratch that one. Sorry. Okay.
Sure.
>> Lost lost the plot there for a second.
>> No problem. So I think it's a great
moment to just dive into what you're
working on now. What's exciting you
right now? Uh you know before this
conversation you sent me links to a few
cool things that you're working on. Can
you speak to what uh Chris Krue's all
about right now in this moment?
>> Yeah.
>> Um I'm launching a responsible AI
certification program for professionals
that work in the AI space on Friday.
>> Okay.
>> With Sarah Downey from Victoria here and
Martin Leatka from um Vancouver who's
like a PhD machine learning guy used to
work for Mozilla. And so the idea is
there's a whole bunch of people whose
job has become governance, ethics, and
you know, responsible use of AI inside
of corporations. And in many cases, they
don't have the framework for dealing
with this kind of stuff.
>> So I've been trying to roll out a kind
of like a professional project manager
uh type certification where you want to
add the letters to your LinkedIn at the
end of your name to say like, yo, yeah,
I'm a project manager, but I'm a
professional project manager. I've
studied, you know, all the frameworks
and uh, you know, work in this space or
whatever. So, so on Friday, I'm really
happy. We're going to launch in the uh,
responsible AI professional
certification program. Sold out. We've
got like 30 participants out of 30. And,
uh, I'm trying to launch a digital
version of it at the same time or
whatever.
>> And who are these people that have
signed up? Are they all they all work
for corporations, organizations? And
>> some of them are executive directors of
nonprofits who's like, "My board says we
got to figure out AI this year, you
know, and I want to do it in a way that
doesn't make all my employees quit."
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> That's actually a pretty common
conversation.
>> That's a pretty, you know, real use
case. Real use board said figure out AI,
staff's like fo, you know, like and so
I'm trying to figure out how I can
implement this in a way that feels good
to me
>> and to them and also, you know, delivers
on my fiduciary responsibility,
>> right? Yeah.
>> Um, yeah, I see a lot of people that are
um AI ethics and governance people
inside their or HR people
>> much like the web in web 2.0. Who owns
AI has yet to be figured out yet because
it touches everything. It touches HR
around hiring. It touches technology
around coding. It touches marketing in a
variety of ways. because you know
executive STR it touches many uh
departments or traditional like
functional roles inside corporations and
organizations. So we haven't quite
figured out who who owns it yet as it
touches so many things. But um and then
there's a whole emerging class of like
>> you know innovation change agent type
people. These are AI consultants that
are
ahead of the curve, you know, visav 80%
of their peers or whatever and are
helping to
>> they're essentially like the tip of the
spear. They're out there learning about
this stuff, experimenting with it, and
then bringing it back and, you know,
selling their expertise to other
organizations as consultants.
>> We've got a lot of people there who are,
you know, trying to differentiate
themselves from other people in space.
And
>> yeah, it's brilliant. Okay, cool.
>> You also sent me another link. Uh, what
was it? punk AI or uh
>> yeah so okay I've been having so much
fun lately turning things into other
things using vibe coding
>> so in this conversation we've touched on
some interesting things
>> um and we have a transcript of it you
know from the audio well that transcript
is what you know LLMs eat for lunch or
whatever so we could take from this
transcript here we could say here's two
guys having a conversation about uh you
know AI creativity and the arts Let's
build some diagrams, examples,
exercises, thought experiments around
the stuff that they're talking about
there.
>> Right?
>> So, I've launched two websites in the
last couple weeks. One called Both Hands
Full, one called Punk Rock AI. And these
are the transcripts of my keynotes
turned into online learning modules for
other creatives and artists and stuff
where they can get in there and they're
like, "Oh, Chris says I should have an
AI policy, a worldview, and perspectives
document, and a voice and style guide.
>> How do I do those?" says, "Well, I got a
little tool you can like put your blog
into, put your band camp site into, have
it analyze that stuff and spit out a
well, here's based on your lyrics what
you feel about the world or think in
your heart about, you know, your values
or your worldview, your perspective and
stuff."
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Brilliant.
>> Yeah. I've been trying to Yeah.
repurpose,
you know, talks, transcripts, and things
like that into other creative assets
along the way,
>> launching the courses. Um the the
nonprofit's really kind of thriving. You
know, we launched that Komox chapter.
We've had a couple events up there. Um
we've got like 70 people in that
community that have come together and
are supporting the events and
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> couple little rural sponsors like uh you
know the the local cheese artisan cheese
factories come to the table with the
>> I love it.
>> Yeah. Refreshment table sponsorship and
>> Yeah. And on that note, I mean, in the
the lineage of tech and AI advances,
where does West Coast Canada like or
where's BC, what role does it play that
you see in the lineage of all of this?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I think that um we stand on the
shoulders of giants in some ways and
also we've like missed some boats in
other ways, but we're kind of sitting
pretty I feel like for the future and so
I'll unpack that a little bit. So we've
got um we've got one of the best
supercomputers in Canada for doing AI in
the SFU network. In fact, it's so good
that they are making a case to the
federal government right now that of all
the allocation of AI dollars that are
coming to the West Coast that they
should take 100% of them.
>> Wow.
>> Because they're because
>> they do have the most advanced
supercomputer in Canada.
>> Unfortunately, in some ways, those
things matter in this race that we're
in. even though that's maybe not the
healthiest way to look at it as a race
or whatever. And so like we as Canada,
if we're trying to define a sovereign AI
identity that's different than America
and different than China,
>> maybe we should invest 100% of our
budget in this one major supercomputer
center of AI, you know.
>> Um
>> what was your question?
>> I lost it.
>> You see?
>> Oh yeah. [__]
Um, so standing on the shoulders of
giants is where we were. Um, so we've
got like bonafide chops here. We've got
like um Dr. Phipe Pasque's meta creation
lab at SFU at the school of interactive
art and technology. This has been a a
lab for music AI and creative AI that's
been around for 20 years. This guy is a
very wellsighted uh researcher and
professor. He built the tool called
AutoLoom that I used to train my own AI
model on my own photography. When I said
that I taught a computer brain what
faces looked like, that was using the
SFU tool, AutoLoom.
>> So, we've got research labs.
>> We've got like this infrastructure
>> uh around like the supercomputers and
stuff and and so uh and these tenure
professors, academic legacy, we've got a
lot of a lot of those types of things in
place.
Unfortunately, we sort of missed the
boat with the federal allocations of
billions that was received by the Vector
Institute in Toronto, MA in Montreal,
which has 700 AI and machine learning
researchers funded by the federal
government there in Montreal, or Amy,
the Alberta Machine Intelligence
Institute in Edmonton. These are three
centers of Canadian AI excellence that
have been funded by the government to
the tune of $1 billion.
>> Now, this happened several years ago.
So, they've actually done economic
impact studies on these things. And you
know, those things have returned four or
5x the economic impact to those three
metropolitan areas, Edmonton, Toronto,
and Montreal. Yeah. So the investment of
a billion into MIA in Montreal by the
federal government has resulted in four
or five billion dollars in economic
development. This is like conferences,
labs starting up, startups, all sorts of
things.
>> So
>> there hasn't really been a voice of the
BC AI ecosystem until we started. And so
we haven't had a chance to clearly
articulate our West Coast advantage out
here around clean energy, around
indigenous own energy production, you
know, around creativity and ethics and
the arts and stuff like that. Like we're
not Toronto and we're not Montreal. We
do have a different perspective. And so
a lot of the work that we're doing as a
nonprofit and association is
>> building the coalition, politically
organizing, and then putting those
messages out there into the federal
government.
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> Yeah. I got invited to Minister Evan
Solomon who's the Canadian AI minister.
Um he had an AI and culture summit in BA
uh just over a month ago and this had
all the big wigs there. the people that
represent the film directors, the people
that represent the um screenwriters, uh
music lyricists, even things like uh
museums and opera and all all the
cultural producers of Canada were there
trying to figure out
>> like
the government wants to just like
obviously like fund technological
infrastructure, but by doing so they do
so at the cost of the cultural producers
of Canada if they don't have a line item
for them as well. And so people are
trying to figure out what their place in
the future is stuff. And so
>> um that's what we're trying to do with
the BCAI ecosystem. We're trying to
>> rally the troops, come together, put our
needs in the middle, form a situation
that's bigger than any one company or
nonprofit or institution, and
>> essentially rally the federal government
for some of those 30 billion dollars of
earmarked Mark Carney AI money.
>> Wow. And when you are, you know, when it
comes to the point where you actually
get to communicate your message, your
vision to the to the government, are
they I mean, I I deal with this
conversation all the time and we're
constantly having to talk about how art
how there's a return on investment when
it comes to art. Um, and we rarely get
to just speak about the value of art as
art. you know, it always has to be a
tourist dollars or how can we leverage
this to some sort of payoff down the
road? It is that the conversation with
AI in general? Is there a um arts,
culture, and human evolution or the
philosophical evolution of the human
species or is it all about the return on
investment? A lot of our conversation
with people like Minister Mark Miller or
Minister Evan Solomon or Minister Gregor
Robertson centers around trust
>> and it has to do with like building
social license and trust around this
kind of stuff. Like we can have these
technological breakthroughs and AI and
video factories you know or whatever.
But unless the artists and cultural
producers are along there helping figure
out how to make sense of it and what
this means for society and our lives and
the rest, well, it's going to be hollow
and it's going to be an extractive
Silicon Valley driven not us process or
whatever, right? And so, um, I think
that a lot of people do understand the
role that culture plays and kind of
making sense of this. And um I think
that you know if we speed off into the
future without bringing arts and culture
along the way, we're going to end up as
a vassal state of California.
>> Yeah,
100% agree. Okay, couple more questions
for you. Our time's fl just flown by,
but um
is there anything currently that you
would refuse to use AI for? Any task?
any is there anything that you wouldn't
use AI for right now in your life?
>> Yeah. Um well, my claim to fame is as a
documentary photographer and filmmaker,
>> right?
>> This is an area where Okay, let me like
now I have to dissect your question a
little bit. Go
>> for it.
>> You're talking about the creative
outputs. You're like, you know, no, I
would never replace a portrait of a
community member with an AI generated
portrait of a community member. I would
never generate documentation of a meetup
as
you know instead of bringing a
photographer there to actually be there
uh you know but but there's plenty of
things that are short of all the
creative works that involve engaging
those photographers to do documentation
of my monthly meetups that's super
useful and valuable like just
maintaining a CRM with all these
people's photos tagged and titled and
archived and you know like indexable
>> 100% I mean you take any artist and
about 75% of their time is doing, you
know, art adjacent work or art work that
is used to promote or propel their art.
Focus on the art adjacent work and don't
focus on the artwork, you know, or
whatever. I I guess the other thing is
like transparency on this is like super
important. And I've had a couple like
hard lessons. Um, you know, one time a
few years ago on my mom's birthday, uh,
when voice cloning had just come out, I
had generated some poem about my mom's
life and then I had my voice clone read
it and I had it sent it to her as an MP3
and I didn't hear from her for a few
days and one day we were chatting again
and I was like, "Yo, mom, what'd you
think of that like deep fake birthday
greeting or whatever?" And she was like,
"What do you mean?"
>> Oh, no.
>> I was like, "You know the fake voice
thing about the poem thing or whatever?"
And she was like, and she cried. I mean,
mom cried. She's like, "I already get
phone calls during dinner from deep fake
people trying to sell me stuff. I don't
know who's who and what's what, you
know, or whatever." And like,
>> uh, now I don't know the sound of my own
son's voice. Like, what kind of world do
I live in, you know?
>> So,
>> transparency and disclosure as a
especially like one of these most
intimate relationship. I I'll tell you
one more like story. I never told this
in public, but
>> sort of recently
We can edit this out, right? Um, sort of
recently I I had a new relationship
forming with a a girl who's in a bunch
of bands and and um she was in the
studio um recording during a few of the
weeks that we were dating and she was
and we're talking every day about the
whole process and sharing music back and
forth things we like and I was playing
trumpet riffs on my on my trumpet and
sharing with on on phone and stuff and
you know we had this dialogue going
about like this album that she was
making or whatever.
Well, a few weeks ago again, there was a
new innovation that came out that gave
you the ability to clone your voice but
inside music in Suno.
>> So, I took my trumpet riffs, I took my
real life voice, I took like essentially
like our chat logs or my own journals
and stuff and I like wrote some like,
you know, AI wrote some
legit lyrics that could have sound that
sounded like I wrote them that were
about my life, right? and then sang them
through my deep fake voice and like you
know with my trumpet there and stuff and
like I was presenting it to her as like
a
>> continued dialogue exploration of the
things that we had been exploring
together like hey all here's all that
[__] kind of like and like my my take on
it and here's some exploration and you
know I'm really hungry right now to like
have new
places to experiment with like my
methodologies and my processes and stuff
>> so um at first she was like yeah not
that into it.
>> And then she's one day she's like, you
know, yeah, this scares me a little bit.
I'm like, yeah, yeah, it scares me, too.
That's what the songs are about. Listen,
actually, that's actually that's what
the songs are about. But um
>> she hate it.
>> Yeah, she hated it. Yeah. Uh it it um
facilitated a quick demise of our
connection in that uh um she you know I
was I wasn't when she said she was
fearful of it.
>> She didn't mean the same thing I meant
when I'm like I'm fearful of it in this
one hand and I'm also curious and
intrigued and trying to mess with it and
all these things. But so just um
>> thanks for sharing that.
>> Yeah. You know like like uh
>> be be careful you know be careful. This
stuff's real, you know, and it it does
have the power to
do damage to some of the relationships
we care about the most, right? We're
talking about like trust, how we
represent ourselves,
>> like the ability to remix our own
thoughts and words and ideas and stuff
like that. So, it's just like you
definitely want to like
>> be slow, measure twice, cut once,
>> be full transparency like that.
>> I love that. It's never been a better
moment to do the whole like build in
public thing, which is maybe like one of
the things that's been attractive to me
about you since the beginning is like
before I'd ever been to the house of Al
or maybe even before you even started,
you started talking about wanting to do
this and that you were going to do it
and coming together to do it
>> and simply by
>> sharing that and being transparent in
public, you can course correct along the
way. you can figure out where you're
bumping into other things and you can be
like, "Hey,
>> you know,
>> yeah, you can make all the mistakes."
>> Totally.
>> So, yeah, I think that yeah, keeping
like
>> communication, transparency,
authenticity high, being careful about
the relationships you trust the most,
you care about the most, you know, and
and just like using it as a way more
than anything to like build up trust and
creativity and kind of some of those
more um, you know, soft skills.
>> Yeah, that's beautifully said, too. And
I also I mean I'm just thinking out
loud. Now this is very off script, but
I'm I'm wondering you know a lot of the
art
I think sometimes the rub comes from the
fact that these artists who engage in
this these creative flows it it does
feel or it can feel spiritual and it can
feel um a connection to spirit or
something greater than yourself is
flowing through. And um somewhere along
the lines, we took
that experience and brought it into a
world capitalism and efficiency and
productivity and let's pump out more and
let's um and so I mean if it had stayed
as only a spiritual practice, if music
and dance and pink remained as a
spiritual practice, I don't know if it
could have ever been if we would even
consider the idea of it being threatened
as a thing. You know, you can't
Oh, AI can uh canoire.
>> Yeah. Okay. Exactly. Like
>> like it's not AI is never gonna I'm
never going to choose to have it
meditate for me. Meditation is my spirit
spiritual practice. I'm here for the
process of it, not for the end result.
And uh and so I wonder if we kind of you
know because we entered into that
conversation of productivity and
efficiency and pushing out art.
It's sort of we sort of tripped on the
way in and now we're dealing with AI
which is very productive and efficient
and and something kind of started to rub
wrong in the way. you know, if um
>> I think that we have probably hyper
optimized into these areas that make us
super successful as like humans that
that are based on the context of the
world we live in, which is kind of the
factory innovation model of like you put
some stuff in, it moves through the
process and something comes out the
other side. Like what if we're not meant
to be like human encyclopedias and
spreadsheets and like what if we
>> gave up the 14 or 16 years that we train
our kids to become encyclopedias and
spreadsheets and instead we taught them
to be intuitits empaths, relation people
and communicators, you know, or
something like that. Bridge builders,
you know, like collaborators, you know,
>> what if instead of efficiency, we value
collaborative uh, you know, relational
resonance or something like this. So, I
think that
>> but but
>> that's to be careful to not discount the
pain between here and there. Mhm.
>> So, it's likely that we've hyperindexed
on all this stuff that might not
actually be that important in the grand
scheme of what it means to be human.
>> Yeah.
>> But it makes us very successful now.
>> Absolutely.
>> But between here and when the pendulum
kind of falls into the middle,
>> [__] man. Like think everything's up
for grabs. You know, there's people with
mortgages and kids in school with not
just jobs that are going away, but
careers, identities and whole like uh
>> you know, accumulated work experience
that has been now like absorbed into
into machines without their consent, you
know, and stuff. So, it's going to be a
very disorienting time.
>> Yeah. And I think that, you know,
holding like compassion for each other
>> as we we're all on different stages of
this journey around like relationship to
AI and the future and tech and all this
stuff and and we're getting
>> info from a lot of different sources and
it's pretty hard to see over the
horizon. And so it's like
>> what better time to practice like
humility around our own ideas and stuff
like that, empathy for what other people
might be going through with this
experience and just trying to have
compassion and like
>> coming together, man. And it really
seems to be like where it's at. Like
it's probably why the house owl is like
sitting pretty as well. It's like in a
land of synthetic everything where all
this [__] can be generated by, you know,
hive minds out there in Silicon Valley
land. Well, what matters the most is
like probably having physical spaces to
safely come together in trusted
environments and make sense of the world
around us, man. Like
>> I think this is a great place to wrap
up. So I've got one final question for
you. Um I'll put it into two different
ways and you can choose which one you
want to answer. So either what's
important to you right now or what is
sacred to you right now?
>> I think it's that human connection and
relationship that I just told you about.
The thing that I think will buttress us
or be that life raft against
>> not just uncertainty but profoundly
increasing pace of like change.
>> This change that we just felt that we're
walking through right now. It's going to
like accelerate. That's going to be the
defining moment of the time is that
>> the AIs we're using right now, they were
built by humans, but the next AIS are
going to be built by AIs. And then you
start to really get on a curve, right?
And so like, well, what do you what do
you do when that's where you're living?
It's like the best thing I can figure
out is to walk into the future holding
hands with the people around me, you
know, trying to see like, yo, we're
stronger together than I am by myself.
And so,
>> that's where I'm placing my bets.
>> Love it. I'll place them right there,
too. All right.
>> Thank you, bro.
>> Thank you. Now if uh if people want to
you know engage in this conversation
further with you uh where can they go
websites or Yeah.
>> Yeah. The best place to go would be to
bc-ai.ca.
That's our nonprofit ecosystem. That'll
lead you down in my whole world. But uh
spell my name with two K's. K R I S K R
U G. You drop that in Google and see
what the goddess has in store for you.
Man,
>> sounds good. Thank you so much for
taking the time.
>> All right, my friends. We'll see you
again. Thanks for connecting. Be well,
be wild, and uh be yourself every once
in a while. Good night.
>> House of Owl.
>> House of
How's it looking there? Is it uh
press the red button?
>> Have you been Have you ever done one of
these where you